# ArrayUniqueElementCountExtension
### This iOS playground contains an extension to Arrays where the elements are codeable. The extension has two functions countUniqueELements and countUniqieElementsEfficient. Both of the functions count the number of unique elements in an array of integers. 
### The countUniqueElements function works by creating an array of integers called uniqueArray. Next there is a for loop that loops through the array that the function is called on and checks every element in the called array and sees if it matches elements in the unique array. If the unique array does not have the value in the array it is appended to the end of uniqueArray. The function then prints the uniqueArray to show the user visually the values of the uniqueArray and then returns the count or number of values in uniqueArray which is the number of unique values of the orignal array.
### The countUniqueElementsEfficient function first sorts the array the function is called on. Next there is a variable created called startVal which stores the first value in the array. Next a tuple is created that holds two values. The first value in the tuple holds the current value of the array as it is iterated through and the second value holds a counter of the number of unique values in the array. The startValue variable is set to the first value in the array and the second value is set to 1 because the startvalue is the first unique value. Next the tuple is printed to show the user the first value. There is a for loop which loops through the sorted array and checks if current value of the for loop is different than the value before itself. If the value is different than the previous value it is a new unique value because the array is in ascending order and each time the next value is not matching it is a unique value. When the if statement catches new uniqe value the second value in the tuple which is the counter of unique values is incremented by one and the tuple is printed to show the user the current unique value as well as the count. After the checking if statement the tuples first value stores the current value of the array in the first value of the tuple. When the for loop executes for the next value the previous value is stored in the tuples first value and is checked against. After the array is done looping the tuples second value will hold the count of unique values in the array and that is what this function returns.
